# Regression Analysis of the Equilibrium Valuation Model

Justin Dano


## Abstract

This paper takes a look at a systematic equity valuation model and performs regression analysis to gain insights to whether or not the model has any predictive characteristics. The work here is a continuation of Boris Wang’s paper1. His researched laid the ground work for the model and how build the features, but only involved a simple regression model in excel. Our intentions are to understand the underlying factors proposed in his model and see which factors are relevant, the validity of various types of regression, and measure the efficacy of these models. Wang’s model is based off the discounted cash flow (DCF) theory which values an asset as a function of the income it generated, the uncertainty of that income, and the risk-free rate of the market. Our analysis follows in sync with Wang’s, using a similar dataset of US companies in the S&P 500. We perform outlier analysis followed by the standard linear regression. We follow up with performing various types of regularized regression include Ridge, Lasso, and Elastic Net to determine which features have the highest corresponding importance. 

## 1. Outline
Section 2 will introduce the underlying theory of financial valuation, and the theory behind the model. Section 3 gives a literature review, and section 4 our research thesis. Section 5 dives into the technical details of how the data was obtained and transformed in a way that could emulate Wang’s Model. Section 6 dives into the model creation, deploying our original on using regression to build a predictive model. Section 7 covers the results of our models, and conclusion provided in 8. Following the conclusion we have an attached appendix for references and additional graphs.

## 2. Introduction
Valuation is the process of determining the economic value of a business or company, and understanding how to derive that economic value is the primary business of most financial institutions. By taking a look at the sheer size of the financial industry, we gain insight in just how relevant the ability to understand the worth of something really is. Our analysis looks to extend the current understanding of the valuation models, and more specifically, the equilibrium valuation model. Equilibrium, in the economic sense, is the state of the market where supply and demand are equal2. By making this brass assumption and we can construct a framework for understanding how a company can be valued using metrics such as cash flow, EBITDA, and operating expenses.
A large amount of research on valuation has already been done, and since the theory of the equilibrium model is not the subject of this paper, we will only summarize its main parts relevant to the analysis performed. It suffices to say that the model is derived from the discounted cash flow model (DCF Model) which is well known and established in the industry. The underlying economics of each factors is presented in the original paper by Wang. 

### 2.1 Theory
The equilibrium valuation model is a combination of three factors; the income generated by the asset, the probability or risk that the income generated will change in the future, and the risk-free rate of the market.

[test](images/f1.png)

Equity Value = f (Income, Risk, Risk-Free Rate)

Income of an asset can be quantifiable in a few ways. The one we use here is the free cash flow (FCF) of the asset, which reflects the amount of cash a company can return to its shareholders after paying any operational expenses. The risk factor can be a function of the expectation or anticipation of how FCF will change in the future (TG). Finally, as a way to calibrate our model with the market, we take into consideration US Treasury Bills to represent the Risk Free Rate (RF) of the model. The result of these three factors give us the Firm Value (FV).



<p align="justify"> FV = f (FCF, TG, RF) </p>

### 2.2 Proposed Model
Our model has three main components used to model firm value,  FCF, TG, and  RF. Each of these components can have varying degree of factors, but will be designed in a way that emulates the original paper by Wang1. The terms n are measured quarterly.  
1)	Free Cash Flow (FCF) = f ( REVn, EBITDA%n, TAX%n, CAPEX%n, ∆WC%n ) 

